Mission Vision 

Murray Christian Fellowship Church is inspired by a couple realities:  

Mission.1 Murray State has a student population of approximately 10,000 students who represent 53 countries globally. For this reason, many campus ministries work missionally on campus to evangelize students and lead them in following Jesus Christ.  Murray Christian Fellowship is already established as a ministry that attends to this need.  

 

Nevertheless, student missions and evangelism must be paired with discipleship and local church involvement to foster true growth for those who have accepted Jesus as Lord. Murray itself is saturated with local churches, however there are no active churches on campus within walking distance of the dorms. This need was once addressed by the Journey Church, but has recently been reopened when the church moved to an off-site location. For students who do not have driving capabilities or do not desire to leave campus to enter into a church, Murray Christian Fellowship is uniquely positioned to meet the need of on-campus church community to many students. 

 

Vision. It is our goal to plant a church community that is available to students on campus at MSU. To reflect the experience of the local church, we desire for our church plant to be multi-generational, friendly to families, and diverse in its representation of gifts and strengths amongst its members. We see the diversity of the church as being an important testimony that communicates the love of Jesus in a powerful way. The witness of the local church is a necessary part of discipleship, so our desire is to become a church which – though serving the needs of the local community through the college – acts and behaves like a biblical Christian congregation.  

 

Beliefs and Denominational Affiliations 

Doctrinal Prologue 

Murray Christian Fellowship as a campus ministry is non-denominational which is both a strength and a weakness. The strength of the non-denominational church is that it does not require any special knowledge in its advertisement to outsiders. For people who do not have any specific theological background, the non-denominational approach can serve as a bridge to meet unreached or unchurched peoples.  

The significant weaknesses to being a non-denominational ministry is the lack of clear confessional statements and being disconnected from church history. In other words, for those who do have church background and training, denominational labels are short-form ways of communicating doctrinal beliefs. Many larger denominations are also tethered to historic traditions of the church. For seasoned believers, novelty is rightly seen as dangerous. The non-denominational church must therefore take measures to vest its beliefs in the Scriptures and communicate how its doctrine and confession fits into the broader Christian tradition.  

The following sections are expressions of the theological confessions that we believe place our work within the historic confessions of the church and ground the basis of our ministry.  

Scripture 

Canon. All of the following statements are based upon the traditional 66-book Protestant canon. 

God-Breathed. The Scripture is God-breathed, inspired by the Holy Spirit, and the foundational means by which believers can claim special revelation of God. Though God has revealed Himself to mankind through His creation, He saw fit to communicate to humans through the Scriptures. The Bible thus serves as the foundational authority for special knowledge of God including: (a) God’s work in salvation, (b) God’s plans for His Creation, (c) All practical matters of Christian living. In all matters of spiritual knowledge and right living, Scripture has the final word. Thus, the Christian life must be thoroughly Scripture-oriented and built upon its promises.2  

The Role of Human Authorship. Though the Scripture is God-breathed, it was also penned by humans. Thus, the divine was entrusted to the natural and subjugated to human realities. For this reason, the Scripture emulates the human experience in being conveyed in numerous genres, contextual settings, and occasions over a vast distance of time and space. These realities necessitate the careful consideration of contexts and authorial intent in discerning the meaning of the Scriptures. 

The Holy Spirit and the Scripture. Just as the Holy Spirit inspired the writing of the Scriptures, He also works in the hearts and minds of people who read God’s Word and carefully consider the testimony of the Bible. The Holy Spirit is able to convict hearts, renew minds, and work in power to change the lives of individuals irrespective of their language, origin, or any other human factor. Thus, while translation and manuscript work are important within Christian study, it is understood that the Holy Spirit can utilize any translation (modern or extant) to lead a person to saving knowledge of the truth found in Jesus.3 

Summary. The Scripture is God’s special revelation to mankind and is pure, powerful, and effective for the salvation of the human soul. The Scripture is the final authority for living and spiritual belief in the life of the Christian. The Scripture is to be received as a God-given reality which impresses on our hearts wherein the Holy Spirit can move in power.  

God 

Trinity. God is a triune being; while God is unified in Himself, He is known through three distinct persons: the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. Being wholly unified, all persons of the Trinity are coeternal and share in the same divine essence. There is not chronological priority of any one of the persons of the Trinity – the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit are coeternal. Yet, each person of the Trinity may be known through their distinct roles. Only the Father sent His Son into the World; only the Son took on flesh and died as a ransom for humanity to be raised to new life; only the Spirit of God convicts the hearts of men and sanctifies believers.4  

God the Father. The Father is the Creator of the world, is sovereign over all parts of His creation, and works providentially for His people in all times and places. God’s desire for the salvation of mankind is evident in the sending of His Son to be sacrificed on behalf of sinful humans.5   

God the Son. No thing in Creation was created apart from the Son (or the Word); furthermore, the son holds all of creation together. Though having full equality with God, the Son took on human flesh in His incarnation, and became fully man having been born of the virgin Mary. Being fully God and fully man, the Son lived a sinless life of active obedience to the Father, and submitted Himself to death by crucifixion in order to save those who, by faith, receive His sacrifice as a substitution for the death they deserve. The Son, in his resurrection, demonstrated His power and authority over the grave. In His ascension, the Son has been seated at the right hand of God and intercedes for the saints who place faith in Him. The Son will return to earth again in His second coming, and inaugurate a New Creation accompanied by the resurrection of the dead.6  

God the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit proceeds from the Son and from the Father to convict the world of sin, righteousness, and judgment. The Holy Spirit regenerates the hearts of those who are believers; He dwells within believers and testifies on behalf of believers who do not know how to pray. In addition to the roles above, the Holy Spirit sanctifies believers and draws those who have been reborn into the image of Christ. The Holy Spirit is the seal of believers and is guarantee of redemption. The Holy Spirit equips believers for service within the Kingdom of God and gives gifts according to needs and His good pleasure.7 

Attributes of God. God is the uncaused cause of all things. God is unchanging through the ages. He is perfect in power, holiness, righteousness, justice, and goodness. God is the basis for all moral law and every good thing. God is described by Scripture as love and light. Human experiences of love, light, and what is fundamentally good all find their foundation in Him. God does not sin, lie, or act against any part of His own nature. God is undivided in Himself. God is higher than all other things including evil powers and rulers who are merely created beings. God is all powerful, knowledgeable, and present. God is the only One who is worthy of glory, honor, praise, and worship.8  

Mankind  

Image and Sin. It is evident in the Scriptures that mankind – male and female alike – bears the image of God. Being an image bearer marks all humans as being inherently valuable to God and thus worthy of love, protection, etc. Law and government are both ordained by God to provide security for man, but also hold him accountable for wrongdoing. God made man upright, and created humans to be morally responsible agents. Nevertheless, Adam failed to obey God’s commands which were designed for life which led to the spread of sin and death to all of his progeny. Therefore, all humans after the fall have been born into sin and are sinners by nature and by choice. Because God is completely righteous and holy, He is bound to judge sin and sinners; humanity’s dire situation is thus that they have been separated from God and will be judged in wrath by God if no provision for sin is made. Humans are incapable of attaining salvation according to their own works or merits and must rely upon the grace of God for salvation through faith. Therefore, humans who are bound to be judged by God must look to the same God for provisions of mercy and grace.9  

Salvation (Justification, Sanctification, Glorification) 

Salvation in the Scriptures is something that is afforded to believers through Jesus alone, by grace alone, through faith alone, for the glory of God alone. Salvation as described in the Scriptures also takes on three conventional facets: justification, sanctification, and glorification. For any person who repents of sin, acknowledges Christ as Lord, and believes in His heart that Jesus was raised from the dead, such a person will be saved. Upon believing, God declares the believer justified or legally absolved of his sin debt. Yet, God also promises restoration of the individual through sanctification or being made Holy. This sanctification begins with fundamental heart change (i.e. regeneration) which is complete, and accompanied by restoration of the believer in his mind, attitudes, and actions. The final promise for salvation which is given to all believers is that of glorification. This glorification is the promise that the believer will, just as Jesus, be raised to new life in the New Heavens and New Earth, be unified with Christ to enjoy him forever, and be given a form that is free of all sin, death, sickness, and baggage.10  

Judgment  

The Scripture is clear that all who do not profess faith will be subject to Hell, torment, and destruction in the age to come. This final judgment will be completely just and proportional to the gravity of sin in the life of the individual.11 

Church 

The church in its essence is the representative body of all believers in Jesus in all times and all places. Believers are commanded to meet together for mutual edification, teaching, preaching, taking of the sacraments, worship, and prayer. The church is the Body of Christ and is diverse in its members who represent different gifts. As the Body of Christ, the church is commissioned to participate in the evangelization and discipleship of the world. Furthermore, the church is to model the things which are biblically prescribed in church leadership concerning church authority. Though the Scripture is clear that men and women are equally gifted, competent, and capable in the Lord, the church models obedience to the Lord by emulating the leadership patterns found in the home.12   

Summary 

The doctrinal beliefs elicited above are those which the church has found essential in its major creeds and confessions for much of church history. Though not without minor differences, the confessional document here has been designed to affirm what is Scriptural and what has been historically affirmed by the church. It is believed that a robust view of the Scriptures along with historic sensitivity will provide the life and guidance needed for the church community.  

 

 

 

 

 

Church Plant Questions 

Q: Where do I fit into this church plant? 

We desire for people to feel like an included and important part of the life of this church and to serve within their gifts according with the biblical model. The church is not meant to orbit single personalities, but rather function corporately to direct attention to the person of Jesus.  

In the early stages of this ministry, we are looking for the following: 

A rotation of men who are excited and willing to preach and teach  

While normal preaching will be carried out by Jamie Revell, preaching leaders will be given the pulpit once a month.  

A rotation of leaders who are willing to read the Scripture for the Sunday service and pray over the congregation  

Worship leaders/ministers 

Sermon Review Committee members 

One of our hopes is that male and female leaders within the church can meet on a regular to semi-regular basis to meet with the lead pastor and review recent messages. The purpose of this two-fold (I) Accountability. Was something said in a sermon that needed to be corrected? (II) Representation of the Body. Have the sermons spoken to the needs of the church as a whole? The purpose of this committee is serve as a way to make certain that the preaching offered is biblical, balanced, and tailored to the needs of the church.  

Families who are willing to host groups on or offsite 

Prayer leaders and counselors 

This group will be praying for the church in general, but also facilitating relationships in the church by contacting members and fostering community.  

People to help with sound equipment and production 

Note: our goal is not to put on a “production” in the sense of entertainment; the point here is to maximize communication so that everyone in the congregation can hear and understand what is happening in the service.  

Family ministers 

We desire for our children to be a part of the worship service. One of the best ways to model Christian living for our children is to let them see adults worship and take the Scripture seriously. However, we envision a need for additional hands needed to care for pre-K children.  

People in this ministry should endeavor to build relationships that extend beyond the church walls with other families. One of the best ways for the church to live is to be a body that is alive outside of walls.  

Deacons/Deaconesses – As with any church, there are always needs within the body that need to be addressed and taken care of by caretakers and servants within the church.  

(Other) – Do you have a vision for a need within the body that is not listed here? This is an opportunity to build! 

